- [Instructor] We briefly touched on some of the benefits
of this communication style,
but I want to go into a little more depth
to the power of these architectural design decisions,
to help you be better prepared to know when
and why you would use such a communication style
in your microservices system.
In TCP/IP communications on a network,
and it used to be a real issue with routing protocols,
it was possible to bring a network to its knees
through what is called a broadcast storm.
Each node was broadcasting its routing table
to the whole network, and the network itself
would become gridlocked.
A similar pattern can emerge
in a microservices architecture.
As more and more services enter the system
or even more prevalent, the container orchestrator,
the chattiness of communications
can lead to congestion in the network.
TCP is a chatty protocol to begin with,
and then you add to it the many calls needed
to make one single operation work,
and you start to see congestion on a network.
What is worse is that the congestion grows
exponentially as more services are added to the system
because seldom do we build one-to-one calls.
The more services on the network
and the more services they consume,
the busier the load becomes.
Of course, more users also means more traffic.
One slow service can exacerbate this issue
even more because that latency is felt
in all services consuming the slow service.
In addition, those blocking calls yield more weights,
which then increases the impact of latency
as more and more downstream services
become impacted.
This is where asynchronous communications
can really have an impact.
The single most effective way to reduce gridlock
on the system is to remove blocking calls
where they are not needed.
The less traffic that is waiting on responses
improves the traffic flow,
which, in turn, can reduce gridlock dramatically.
Now, clearly, this isn't the only solution to the problem.
But many times we aim for synchronous calls first,
when in reality, we should be doing the opposite
in a microservices architecture,
to prevent gridlock from ever becoming a real issue.
One of the biggest gains with asynchronous communications
is the impact it can have
when dealing with long-running processes.
And in fact, this is the use case
most developers first tackle
with asynchronous communications.
One of the key issues with long-running processes
becomes blocking.
As we address with gridlock,
blocking calls can be an issue on network congestion.
That issue becomes worse when you have known
long-running processes to deal with.
Asynchronous messaging provides an opportunity
to build a natural retry logic
without another network call.
The consumer of the asynchronous message
can handle its own retry logic
without the client having to have any input at all.
This actually can reduce the overall error state of systems,
especially in those long-running scenarios.
Long-running processes usually have complex call trees
needed to get the work done.
When moving to asynchronous messaging,
the call trees become non-existent,
which again, improves overall performance.
Each system handles its work
and passes the message on in its original
or a transformed state.
This not only impacts performance,
but can also, if done correctly,
reduce complexity of the calls
from a systems view.
But it's not a silver bullet,
and we will talk about that quite a bit.
You can also reduce the risk of timeouts,
which can cause havoc on system health.
When you have long-running processes
that are blocking calls, from the client side,
there is a risk of natural timeouts
in that blocking call.
This can cause services to flop or become unusable
as sockets are cleaned up.
By leveraging asynchronous communications,
the timeouts become almost non-existent
assuming everything else is healthy in the system.
Highly coupled systems, as we all know,
are the bane of developers.
They become brittle and hard to manage,
let alone add features to.
There is a real risk in microservices,
especially where everything is synchronous
in creating highly coupled systems.
Now we end up building a new monolith
with a lot more complexity and chattiness
without solving any of the real problems
we intended to.
When building asynchronous messaging,
the consumer of your asynchronous message isn't known.
You communicate only through the contract
of the message and as such,
your coupling is reduced naturally.
This coupling becomes really evident
if you build in call trees to get work done.
If your client calls several services
that in turn call several services,
all of which are tied to the original call,
this call tree can become a nightmare.
In asynchronous communications, especially in messaging,
this doesn't happen.
Each consumer will act independently of the rest.
This isn't an all-inclusive list,
but there are a few more key benefits
that we should discuss,
and we will see them later in this course.
With asynchronous communications
you can build QoS or priority into your messages.
This allows the consumers to prioritize the work
in a way that makes sense for your business
without negatively impacting your users.
Fault tolerance also becomes an easier problem
to solve in asynchronous messaging.
In traditional synchronous flows,
if a client is unavailable,
you may wait for a response that will never come.
You also need to implement a circuit breaker
or other client side logic to handle this.
In asynchronous systems,
the contract will handle the case
of an unavailable system
and the message won't be blocked or timed out.
I've already said this, but it's worth repeating.
Not every service call needs an immediate response.
Consider deleting an element in your system.
More often than not
the user doesn't need to know
that the element was actually deleted.
They just expect it to happen.
If the call becomes asynchronous,
as long as it's done eventually,
that usually is sufficient.
We often build into our systems
logging, metrics, and analytics,
and rightfully so.
But do you really need to block on these operations?
Again, more often than not,
waiting a few seconds for a metric value
to show up isn't a big deal.
In fact, most of the data is viewed
as an aggregate over time.
As such there is no need for it to be immediate.
The overhead of doing this type of work synchronously
just isn't worth it.